EN111  Comparison Contrast  Essay                       


     This assignment is more complex than the previous, requiring you to examine two works which may approach a theme in similar or very different ways.  Remember what you learned in your composition courses regarding comparison essays.  These must be organized logically and the two subjects must be analyzed in a parallel fashion.

     Most of you will choose the film questions, but other questions are available for those of you who wish to explore other topics.

     The following is a list of suggestions designed to get you thinking about the topic.  They are not, however, a complete list of possible topics, so feel free to explore your own ideas.  Be sure your comparison allows you display your analytical skills, and that the discussion reaches a significant conclusion.



1.	Compare parent/child relationships in two of the stories.
2.	Compare husband/wife or male/female relationships in two of the stories.
3.	Compare the relationships between the young and the old in two of the stories.
4.	Compare the perceived role of women in two of the stories.
5.	Compare the perceived role of the elderly in two of the stories.
6.	Compare the process of growing old in two of the stories.
7.	Compare the use of setting and/or symbol in two of the stories.
8.	James Joyce wrote that “ordinary things” make great short stories.  Compare the use of “ordinary things” in two of the short stories (Chrysanthemums, Hills like White Elephants, A&P, etc.).
9.	Compare the film version of “A Rose for Emily” OR the film version of “Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge” with the short story of the same name.  Would the author have been pleased with the film, or would he think that the film missed the point or simply tried to appeal to a mass audience by telling a strange, Twilight Zone type story?  Be careful; changes in the film may be simply superficial, may be necessitated by the change in medium, or may significantly change the themes of the story.  It will be helpful to anticipate your “opponent’s” ideas when planning your own essay.  Also, critical analysis is more than a laundry list of similarities and differences. Any viewer could write such a list.  Analysis requires you to try to understand why changes may have been made and whether the changes stay true to the spirit of the original work. 
